### A brief history:
Hundreds to thousands of years ago there was a mighty civilization. Although cultural differences stayed present in this global society and regions had their own local governments, traditions, art and customs, the plane-wide superculture lived in peace and relative harmony. Before the collapse, wars were few and far between, and incredible leaps in magic and science were made, elevating all people living in it into what now might be considered godhood, and allowing people to only have to work if they so choose. The most mundane of tasks, such as transcribing, cleaning, serving, mining and even some forms of crafting were automated by machines. The need for trade greatly diminished, and merchantry was rare. Their writing system was highly complex, with no surviving analogs to figure out how it works.

At some point, after a long stable period, a great catastrophe occurred. Something had become a risk to the entire world: a quickly ramping and approaching devastating war. All regions who did not choose sides got wiped by one group or another, while the others only eliminated themselves. This war was sparked by the discovery of extraplanar intelligent life. Not quite on the level of the people of this plane, but several factors caused the utopian nation to destabilize, practically overnight. Eventually, powerful weapons of mass destruction caused the extremely powerful peoples to all but die out.

After spending the last of their resources to widen the genetic bottlenecks and dismantle all weapons, an age of paranoia, distrust and fear was the final straw, and everyone was sent back to primitive times. Magic was feared, and technology even more. People chose to use simple mechanisms and hard labor over advanced magics and technology. Their writing disappeared from the common mind, as deeply connected as it was to magic, opting to only write things down in an increasingly simplified and modified manner, and never on permanent records.

United as this civilization was, it only took one unaligned civilization beyond the boundaries of this plane to destroy it completely.

---
### The present day:
With no remnants of the knowledge of the ancients left, the people of this world, divided and far less advanced, have only scraps to go off of. There is no known way to reliably decipher the ancients' advanced runes for their magical abilities, and just as little to tell how a day in the life of an ancient was. While most scholars correctly hypothesize that the ancients were a plane-spanning civilization, some scholars, most often the ones that feel supremacy about their locality, vehemently claim that these peoples were separate.